[[jms]]
== JMS (Java Message Service)




[[jms-introduction]]
=== Introduction
Spring provides a JMS integration framework that simplifies the use of the JMS API much
like Spring's integration does for the JDBC API.

JMS can be roughly divided into two areas of functionality, namely the production and
consumption of messages. The `JmsTemplate` class is used for message production and
synchronous message reception. For asynchronous reception similar to Java EE's
message-driven bean style, Spring provides a number of message listener containers that
are used to create Message-Driven POJOs (MDPs). Spring also provides a declarative way
of creating message listeners.

The package `org.springframework.jms.core` provides the core functionality for using
JMS. It contains JMS template classes that simplify the use of the JMS by handling the
creation and release of resources, much like the `JdbcTemplate` does for JDBC. The
design principle common to Spring template classes is to provide helper methods to
perform common operations and for more sophisticated usage, delegate the essence of the
processing task to user implemented callback interfaces. The JMS template follows the
same design. The classes offer various convenience methods for the sending of messages,
consuming a message synchronously, and exposing the JMS session and message producer to
the user.

The package `org.springframework.jms.support` provides `JMSException` translation
functionality. The translation converts the checked `JMSException` hierarchy to a
mirrored hierarchy of unchecked exceptions. If there are any provider specific
subclasses of the checked `javax.jms.JMSException`, this exception is wrapped in the
unchecked `UncategorizedJmsException`.

The package `org.springframework.jms.support.converter` provides a `MessageConverter`
abstraction to convert between Java objects and JMS messages.

The package `org.springframework.jms.support.destination` provides various strategies
for managing JMS destinations, such as providing a service locator for destinations
stored in JNDI.

The package `org.springframework.jms.annotation` provides the necessary infrastructure
to support annotation-driven listener endpoints using `@JmsListener`.

The package `org.springframework.jms.config` provides the parser implementation for the
`jms` namespace as well the java config support to configure listener containers and
create listener endpoints.

Finally, the package `org.springframework.jms.connection` provides an implementation of
the `ConnectionFactory` suitable for use in standalone applications. It also contains an
implementation of Spring's `PlatformTransactionManager` for JMS (the cunningly named
`JmsTransactionManager`). This allows for seamless integration of JMS as a transactional
resource into Spring's transaction management mechanisms.




[[jms-using]]
=== Using Spring JMS



[[jms-jmstemplate]]
==== JmsTemplate

The `JmsTemplate` class is the central class in the JMS core package. It simplifies the
use of JMS since it handles the creation and release of resources when sending or
synchronously receiving messages.

Code that uses the `JmsTemplate` only needs to implement callback interfaces giving them
a clearly defined high level contract. The `MessageCreator` callback interface creates a
message given a `Session` provided by the calling code in `JmsTemplate`. In order to
allow for more complex usage of the JMS API, the callback `SessionCallback` provides the
user with the JMS session and the callback `ProducerCallback` exposes a `Session` and
`MessageProducer` pair.

The JMS API exposes two types of send methods, one that takes delivery mode, priority,
and time-to-live as Quality of Service (QOS) parameters and one that takes no QOS
parameters which uses default values. Since there are many send methods in
`JmsTemplate`, the setting of the QOS parameters have been exposed as bean properties to
avoid duplication in the number of send methods. Similarly, the timeout value for
synchronous receive calls is set using the property `setReceiveTimeout`.

Some JMS providers allow the setting of default QOS values administratively through the
configuration of the `ConnectionFactory`. This has the effect that a call to
`MessageProducer`'s send method `send(Destination destination, Message message)` will
use different QOS default values than those specified in the JMS specification. In order
to provide consistent management of QOS values, the `JmsTemplate` must therefore be
specifically enabled to use its own QOS values by setting the boolean property
`isExplicitQosEnabled` to `true`.

For convenience, `JmsTemplate` also exposes a basic request-reply operation that allows
to send a message and wait for a reply on a temporary queue that is created as part of
the operation.

[NOTE]
====
Instances of the `JmsTemplate` class are __thread-safe once configured__. This is
important because it means that you can configure a single instance of a `JmsTemplate`
and then safely inject this __shared__ reference into multiple collaborators. To be
clear, the `JmsTemplate` is stateful, in that it maintains a reference to a
`ConnectionFactory`, but this state is __not__ conversational state.
====

As of Spring Framework 4.1, `JmsMessagingTemplate` is built on top of `JmsTemplate`
and provides an integration with the messaging abstraction, i.e.
`org.springframework.messaging.Message`. This allows you to create the message to
send in generic manner.


[[jms-connections]]
==== Connections
The `JmsTemplate` requires a reference to a `ConnectionFactory`. The `ConnectionFactory`
is part of the JMS specification and serves as the entry point for working with JMS. It
is used by the client application as a factory to create connections with the JMS
provider and encapsulates various configuration parameters, many of which are vendor
specific such as SSL configuration options.

When using JMS inside an EJB, the vendor provides implementations of the JMS interfaces
so that they can participate in declarative transaction management and perform pooling
of connections and sessions. In order to use this implementation, Java EE containers
typically require that you declare a JMS connection factory as a `resource-ref` inside
the EJB or servlet deployment descriptors. To ensure the use of these features with the
`JmsTemplate` inside an EJB, the client application should ensure that it references the
managed implementation of the `ConnectionFactory`.


[[jms-caching-resources]]
===== Caching Messaging Resources
The standard API involves creating many intermediate objects. To send a message the
following 'API' walk is performed

[literal]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
ConnectionFactory->Connection->Session->MessageProducer->send
----

Between the ConnectionFactory and the Send operation there are three intermediate
objects that are created and destroyed. To optimise the resource usage and increase
performance two implementations of `ConnectionFactory` are provided.


[[jms-connection-factory]]
===== SingleConnectionFactory
Spring provides an implementation of the `ConnectionFactory` interface,
`SingleConnectionFactory`, that will return the same `Connection` on all
`createConnection()` calls and ignore calls to `close()`. This is useful for testing and
standalone environments so that the same connection can be used for multiple
`JmsTemplate` calls that may span any number of transactions. `SingleConnectionFactory`
takes a reference to a standard `ConnectionFactory` that would typically come from JNDI.


[[jdbc-connection-factory-caching]]
===== CachingConnectionFactory
The `CachingConnectionFactory` extends the functionality of `SingleConnectionFactory`
and adds the caching of Sessions, MessageProducers, and MessageConsumers. The initial
cache size is set to 1, use the property `SessionCacheSize` to increase the number of
cached sessions. Note that the number of actual cached sessions will be more than that
number as sessions are cached based on their acknowledgment mode, so there can be up to
4 cached session instances when `SessionCacheSize` is set to one, one for each
`AcknowledgementMode`. MessageProducers and MessageConsumers are cached within their
owning session and also take into account the unique properties of the producers and
consumers when caching. MessageProducers are cached based on their destination.
MessageConsumers are cached based on a key composed of the destination, selector,
noLocal delivery flag, and the durable subscription name (if creating durable consumers).



[[jms-destinations]]
==== Destination Management
Destinations, like ConnectionFactories, are JMS administered objects that can be stored
and retrieved in JNDI. When configuring a Spring application context you can use the
JNDI factory class `JndiObjectFactoryBean` / `<jee:jndi-lookup>` to perform dependency
injection on your object's references to JMS destinations. However, often this strategy
is cumbersome if there are a large number of destinations in the application or if there
are advanced destination management features unique to the JMS provider. Examples of
such advanced destination management would be the creation of dynamic destinations or
support for a hierarchical namespace of destinations. The `JmsTemplate` delegates the
resolution of a destination name to a JMS destination object to an implementation of the
interface `DestinationResolver`. `DynamicDestinationResolver` is the default
implementation used by `JmsTemplate` and accommodates resolving dynamic destinations. A
`JndiDestinationResolver` is also provided that acts as a service locator for
destinations contained in JNDI and optionally falls back to the behavior contained in
`DynamicDestinationResolver`.

Quite often the destinations used in a JMS application are only known at runtime and
therefore cannot be administratively created when the application is deployed. This is
often because there is shared application logic between interacting system components
that create destinations at runtime according to a well-known naming convention. Even
though the creation of dynamic destinations is not part of the JMS specification, most
vendors have provided this functionality. Dynamic destinations are created with a name
defined by the user which differentiates them from temporary destinations and are often
not registered in JNDI. The API used to create dynamic destinations varies from provider
to provider since the properties associated with the destination are vendor specific.
However, a simple implementation choice that is sometimes made by vendors is to
disregard the warnings in the JMS specification and to use the `TopicSession` method
`createTopic(String topicName)` or the `QueueSession` method `createQueue(String
queueName)` to create a new destination with default destination properties. Depending
on the vendor implementation, `DynamicDestinationResolver` may then also create a
physical destination instead of only resolving one.

The boolean property `pubSubDomain` is used to configure the `JmsTemplate` with
knowledge of what JMS domain is being used. By default the value of this property is
false, indicating that the point-to-point domain, Queues, will be used. This property
used by `JmsTemplate` determines the behavior of dynamic destination resolution via
implementations of the `DestinationResolver` interface.

You can also configure the `JmsTemplate` with a default destination via the property
`defaultDestination`. The default destination will be used with send and receive
operations that do not refer to a specific destination.



[[jms-mdp]]
==== Message Listener Containers
One of the most common uses of JMS messages in the EJB world is to drive message-driven
beans (MDBs). Spring offers a solution to create message-driven POJOs (MDPs) in a way
that does not tie a user to an EJB container. (See <<jms-asynchronousMessageReception>>
for detailed coverage of Spring's MDP support.) As from Spring Framework 4.1, endpoint
methods can be simply annotated using `@JmsListener` see <<jms-annotated>> for more
details.

A message listener container is used to receive messages from a JMS message queue and
drive the `MessageListener` that is injected into it. The listener container is
responsible for all threading of message reception and dispatches into the listener for
processing. A message listener container is the intermediary between an MDP and a
messaging provider, and takes care of registering to receive messages, participating in
transactions, resource acquisition and release, exception conversion and suchlike. This
allows you as an application developer to write the (possibly complex) business logic
associated with receiving a message (and possibly responding to it), and delegates
boilerplate JMS infrastructure concerns to the framework.

There are two standard JMS message listener containers packaged with Spring, each with
its specialised feature set.


[[jms-mdp-simple]]
===== SimpleMessageListenerContainer
This message listener container is the simpler of the two standard flavors. It creates a
fixed number of JMS sessions and consumers at startup, registers the listener using the
standard JMS `MessageConsumer.setMessageListener()` method, and leaves it up the JMS
provider to perform listener callbacks. This variant does not allow for dynamic adaption
to runtime demands or for participation in externally managed transactions.
Compatibility-wise, it stays very close to the spirit of the standalone JMS
specification - but is generally not compatible with Java EE's JMS restrictions.


[[jms-mdp-default]]
===== DefaultMessageListenerContainer
This message listener container is the one used in most cases. In contrast to
`SimpleMessageListenerContainer`, this container variant does allow for dynamic adaption
to runtime demands and is able to participate in externally managed transactions. Each
received message is registered with an XA transaction when configured with a
`JtaTransactionManager`; so processing may take advantage of XA transaction semantics.
This listener container strikes a good balance between low requirements on the JMS
provider, advanced functionality such as transaction participation, and compatibility
with Java EE environments.

The cache level of the container can be customized. Note that when no caching is enabled,
a new connection and a new session is created for each message reception. Combining this
with a non durable subscription with high loads may lead to message lost. Make sure to
use a proper cache level in such case.

This container also has recoverable capabilities when the broker goes down. By default,
a simple `BackOff` implementation retries every 5 seconds. It is possible to specify
a custom `BackOff` implementation for more fine-grained recovery options, see
`ExponentialBackOff` for an example.


[[jms-tx]]
==== Transaction management
Spring provides a `JmsTransactionManager` that manages transactions for a single JMS
`ConnectionFactory`. This allows JMS applications to leverage the managed transaction
features of Spring as described in <<transaction>>. The `JmsTransactionManager` performs
local resource transactions, binding a JMS Connection/Session pair from the specified
`ConnectionFactory` to the thread. `JmsTemplate` automatically detects such
transactional resources and operates on them accordingly.

In a Java EE environment, the `ConnectionFactory` will pool Connections and Sessions, so
those resources are efficiently reused across transactions. In a standalone environment,
using Spring's `SingleConnectionFactory` will result in a shared JMS `Connection`, with
each transaction having its own independent `Session`. Alternatively, consider the use
of a provider-specific pooling adapter such as ActiveMQ's `PooledConnectionFactory`
class.

`JmsTemplate` can also be used with the `JtaTransactionManager` and an XA-capable JMS
`ConnectionFactory` for performing distributed transactions. Note that this requires the
use of a JTA transaction manager as well as a properly XA-configured ConnectionFactory!
(Check your Java EE server's / JMS provider's documentation.)

Reusing code across a managed and unmanaged transactional environment can be confusing
when using the JMS API to create a `Session` from a `Connection`. This is because the
JMS API has only one factory method to create a `Session` and it requires values for the
transaction and acknowledgement modes. In a managed environment, setting these values is
the responsibility of the environment's transactional infrastructure, so these values
are ignored by the vendor's wrapper to the JMS Connection. When using the `JmsTemplate`
in an unmanaged environment you can specify these values through the use of the
properties `sessionTransacted` and `sessionAcknowledgeMode`. When using a
`PlatformTransactionManager` with `JmsTemplate`, the template will always be given a
transactional JMS `Session`.




[[jms-sending]]
=== Sending a Message

The `JmsTemplate` contains many convenience methods to send a message. There are send
methods that specify the destination using a `javax.jms.Destination` object and those
that specify the destination using a string for use in a JNDI lookup. The send method
that takes no destination argument uses the default destination.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	import javax.jms.ConnectionFactory;
	import javax.jms.JMSException;
	import javax.jms.Message;
	import javax.jms.Queue;
	import javax.jms.Session;

	import org.springframework.jms.core.MessageCreator;
	import org.springframework.jms.core.JmsTemplate;

	public class JmsQueueSender {

		private JmsTemplate jmsTemplate;
		private Queue queue;

		public void setConnectionFactory(ConnectionFactory cf) {
			this.jmsTemplate = new JmsTemplate(cf);
		}

		public void setQueue(Queue queue) {
			this.queue = queue;
		}

		public void simpleSend() {
			this.jmsTemplate.send(this.queue, new MessageCreator() {
				public Message createMessage(Session session) throws JMSException {
					return session.createTextMessage("hello queue world");
				}
			});
		}
	}
----

This example uses the `MessageCreator` callback to create a text message from the
supplied `Session` object. The `JmsTemplate` is constructed by passing a reference to a
`ConnectionFactory`. As an alternative, a zero argument constructor and
`connectionFactory` is provided and can be used for constructing the instance in
JavaBean style (using a BeanFactory or plain Java code). Alternatively, consider
deriving from Spring's `JmsGatewaySupport` convenience base class, which provides
pre-built bean properties for JMS configuration.

The method `send(String destinationName, MessageCreator creator)` lets you send a
message using the string name of the destination. If these names are registered in JNDI,
you should set the `destinationResolver` property of the template to an instance of
`JndiDestinationResolver`.

If you created the `JmsTemplate` and specified a default destination, the
`send(MessageCreator c)` sends a message to that destination.



[[jms-msg-conversion]]
==== Using Message Converters
In order to facilitate the sending of domain model objects, the `JmsTemplate` has
various send methods that take a Java object as an argument for a message's data
content. The overloaded methods `convertAndSend()` and `receiveAndConvert()` in
`JmsTemplate` delegate the conversion process to an instance of the `MessageConverter`
interface. This interface defines a simple contract to convert between Java objects and
JMS messages. The default implementation `SimpleMessageConverter` supports conversion
between `String` and `TextMessage`, `byte[]` and `BytesMesssage`, and `java.util.Map`
and `MapMessage`. By using the converter, you and your application code can focus on the
business object that is being sent or received via JMS and not be concerned with the
details of how it is represented as a JMS message.

The sandbox currently includes a `MapMessageConverter` which uses reflection to convert
between a JavaBean and a `MapMessage`. Other popular implementation choices you might
implement yourself are Converters that use an existing XML marshalling package, such as
JAXB, Castor, XMLBeans, or XStream, to create a `TextMessage` representing the object.

To accommodate the setting of a message's properties, headers, and body that can not be
generically encapsulated inside a converter class, the `MessagePostProcessor` interface
gives you access to the message after it has been converted, but before it is sent. The
example below demonstrates how to modify a message header and a property after a
`java.util.Map` is converted to a message.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public void sendWithConversion() {
		Map map = new HashMap();
		map.put("Name", "Mark");
		map.put("Age", new Integer(47));
		jmsTemplate.convertAndSend("testQueue", map, new MessagePostProcessor() {
			public Message postProcessMessage(Message message) throws JMSException {
				message.setIntProperty("AccountID", 1234);
				message.setJMSCorrelationID("123-00001");
				return message;
			}
		});
	}
----

This results in a message of the form:

[literal]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
MapMessage={
	Header={
		... standard headers ...
		CorrelationID={123-00001}
	}
	Properties={
		AccountID={Integer:1234}
	}
	Fields={
		Name={String:Mark}
		Age={Integer:47}
	}
}
----



[[jms-callbacks]]
==== SessionCallback and ProducerCallback

While the send operations cover many common usage scenarios, there are cases when you
want to perform multiple operations on a JMS `Session` or `MessageProducer`. The
`SessionCallback` and `ProducerCallback` expose the JMS `Session` and `Session` /
`MessageProducer` pair respectively. The `execute()` methods on `JmsTemplate` execute
these callback methods.




[[jms-receiving]]
=== Receiving a message



[[jms-receiving-sync]]
==== Synchronous Reception
While JMS is typically associated with asynchronous processing, it is possible to
consume messages synchronously. The overloaded `receive(..)` methods provide this
functionality. During a synchronous receive, the calling thread blocks until a message
becomes available. This can be a dangerous operation since the calling thread can
potentially be blocked indefinitely. The property `receiveTimeout` specifies how long
the receiver should wait before giving up waiting for a message.



[[jms-asynchronousMessageReception]]
==== Asynchronous Reception - Message-Driven POJOs

[NOTE]
====
Spring also supports annotated-listener endpoints through the use of the `@JmsListener`
annotation and provides an open infrastructure to register endpoints programmatically. This
is by far the most convenient way to setup an asynchronous receiver, see
<<jms-annotated-support>> for more details.
====

In a fashion similar to a Message-Driven Bean (MDB) in the EJB world, the Message-Driven
POJO (MDP) acts as a receiver for JMS messages. The one restriction (but see also below
for the discussion of the `MessageListenerAdapter` class) on an MDP is that it must
implement the `javax.jms.MessageListener` interface. Please also be aware that in the
case where your POJO will be receiving messages on multiple threads, it is important to
ensure that your implementation is thread-safe.

Below is a simple implementation of an MDP:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	import javax.jms.JMSException;
	import javax.jms.Message;
	import javax.jms.MessageListener;
	import javax.jms.TextMessage;

	public class ExampleListener implements MessageListener {

		public void onMessage(Message message) {
			if (message instanceof TextMessage) {
				try {
					System.out.println(((TextMessage) message).getText());
				}
				catch (JMSException ex) {
					throw new RuntimeException(ex);
				}
			}
			else {
				throw new IllegalArgumentException("Message must be of type TextMessage");
			}
		}

	}
----

Once you've implemented your `MessageListener`, it's time to create a message listener
container.

Find below an example of how to define and configure one of the message listener
containers that ships with Spring (in this case the `DefaultMessageListenerContainer`).

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<!-- this is the Message Driven POJO (MDP) -->
	<bean id="messageListener" class="jmsexample.ExampleListener" />

	<!-- and this is the message listener container -->
	<bean id="jmsContainer" class="org.springframework.jms.listener.DefaultMessageListenerContainer">
		<property name="connectionFactory" ref="connectionFactory"/>
		<property name="destination" ref="destination"/>
		**<property name="messageListener" ref="messageListener" />**
	</bean>
----

Please refer to the Spring javadocs of the various message listener containers for a full
description of the features supported by each implementation.



[[jms-receiving-async-session-aware-message-listener]]
==== the SessionAwareMessageListener interface

The `SessionAwareMessageListener` interface is a Spring-specific interface that provides
a similar contract to the JMS `MessageListener` interface, but also provides the message
handling method with access to the JMS `Session` from which the `Message` was received.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	package org.springframework.jms.listener;

	public interface SessionAwareMessageListener {

		void onMessage(Message message, Session session) throws JMSException;

	}
----

You can choose to have your MDPs implement this interface (in preference to the standard
JMS `MessageListener` interface) if you want your MDPs to be able to respond to any
received messages (using the `Session` supplied in the `onMessage(Message, Session)`
method). All of the message listener container implementations that ship with Spring
have support for MDPs that implement either the `MessageListener` or
`SessionAwareMessageListener` interface. Classes that implement the
`SessionAwareMessageListener` come with the caveat that they are then tied to Spring
through the interface. The choice of whether or not to use it is left entirely up to you
as an application developer or architect.

Please note that the `'onMessage(..)'` method of the `SessionAwareMessageListener`
interface throws `JMSException`. In contrast to the standard JMS `MessageListener`
interface, when using the `SessionAwareMessageListener` interface, it is the
responsibility of the client code to handle any exceptions thrown.



[[jms-receiving-async-message-listener-adapter]]
==== the MessageListenerAdapter

The `MessageListenerAdapter` class is the final component in Spring's asynchronous
messaging support: in a nutshell, it allows you to expose almost __any__ class as a MDP
(there are of course some constraints).

Consider the following interface definition. Notice that although the interface extends
neither the `MessageListener` nor `SessionAwareMessageListener` interfaces, it can still
be used as a MDP via the use of the `MessageListenerAdapter` class. Notice also how the
various message handling methods are strongly typed according to the __contents__ of the
various `Message` types that they can receive and handle.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public interface MessageDelegate {

		void handleMessage(String message);

		void handleMessage(Map message);

		void handleMessage(byte[] message);

		void handleMessage(Serializable message);

	}
----

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class DefaultMessageDelegate implements MessageDelegate {
		// implementation elided for clarity...
	}
----

In particular, note how the above implementation of the `MessageDelegate` interface (the
above `DefaultMessageDelegate` class) has __no__ JMS dependencies at all. It truly is a
POJO that we will make into an MDP via the following configuration.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<!-- this is the Message Driven POJO (MDP) -->
	**<bean id="messageListener" class="org.springframework.jms.listener.adapter.MessageListenerAdapter">
		<constructor-arg>
			<bean class="jmsexample.DefaultMessageDelegate"/>
		</constructor-arg>
	</bean>**

	<!-- and this is the message listener container... -->
	<bean id="jmsContainer" class="org.springframework.jms.listener.DefaultMessageListenerContainer">
		<property name="connectionFactory" ref="connectionFactory"/>
		<property name="destination" ref="destination"/>
		**<property name="messageListener" ref="messageListener" />**
	</bean>
----

Below is an example of another MDP that can only handle the receiving of JMS
`TextMessage` messages. Notice how the message handling method is actually called
`'receive'` (the name of the message handling method in a `MessageListenerAdapter`
defaults to `'handleMessage'`), but it is configurable (as you will see below). Notice
also how the `'receive(..)'` method is strongly typed to receive and respond only to JMS
`TextMessage` messages.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public interface TextMessageDelegate {

		void receive(TextMessage message);

	}
----

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class DefaultTextMessageDelegate implements TextMessageDelegate {
		// implementation elided for clarity...
	}
----

The configuration of the attendant `MessageListenerAdapter` would look like this:

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<bean id="messageListener" class="org.springframework.jms.listener.adapter.MessageListenerAdapter">
		<constructor-arg>
			<bean class="jmsexample.DefaultTextMessageDelegate"/>
		</constructor-arg>
		<property name="defaultListenerMethod" value="receive"/>
		<!-- we don't want automatic message context extraction -->
		<property name="messageConverter">
			<null/>
		</property>
	</bean>
----

Please note that if the above `'messageListener'` receives a JMS `Message` of a type
other than `TextMessage`, an `IllegalStateException` will be thrown (and subsequently
swallowed). Another of the capabilities of the `MessageListenerAdapter` class is the
ability to automatically send back a response `Message` if a handler method returns a
non-void value. Consider the interface and class:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public interface ResponsiveTextMessageDelegate {

		// notice the return type...
		String receive(TextMessage message);

	}
----

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class DefaultResponsiveTextMessageDelegate implements ResponsiveTextMessageDelegate {
		// implementation elided for clarity...
	}
----

If the above `DefaultResponsiveTextMessageDelegate` is used in conjunction with a
`MessageListenerAdapter` then any non-null value that is returned from the execution of
the `'receive(..)'` method will (in the default configuration) be converted into a
`TextMessage`. The resulting `TextMessage` will then be sent to the `Destination` (if
one exists) defined in the JMS Reply-To property of the original `Message`, or the
default `Destination` set on the `MessageListenerAdapter` (if one has been configured);
if no `Destination` is found then an `InvalidDestinationException` will be thrown (and
please note that this exception __will not__ be swallowed and __will__ propagate up the
call stack).



[[jms-tx-participation]]
==== Processing messages within transactions
Invoking a message listener within a transaction only requires reconfiguration of the
listener container.

Local resource transactions can simply be activated through the `sessionTransacted` flag
on the listener container definition. Each message listener invocation will then operate
within an active JMS transaction, with message reception rolled back in case of listener
execution failure. Sending a response message (via `SessionAwareMessageListener`) will
be part of the same local transaction, but any other resource operations (such as
database access) will operate independently. This usually requires duplicate message
detection in the listener implementation, covering the case where database processing
has committed but message processing failed to commit.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<bean id="jmsContainer" class="org.springframework.jms.listener.DefaultMessageListenerContainer">
		<property name="connectionFactory" ref="connectionFactory"/>
		<property name="destination" ref="destination"/>
		<property name="messageListener" ref="messageListener"/>
		**<property name="sessionTransacted" value="true"/>**
	</bean>
----

For participating in an externally managed transaction, you will need to configure a
transaction manager and use a listener container which supports externally managed
transactions: typically `DefaultMessageListenerContainer`.

To configure a message listener container for XA transaction participation, you'll want
to configure a `JtaTransactionManager` (which, by default, delegates to the Java EE
server's transaction subsystem). Note that the underlying JMS ConnectionFactory needs to
be XA-capable and properly registered with your JTA transaction coordinator! (Check your
Java EE server's configuration of JNDI resources.) This allows message reception as well
as e.g. database access to be part of the same transaction (with unified commit
semantics, at the expense of XA transaction log overhead).

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<bean id="transactionManager" class="org.springframework.transaction.jta.JtaTransactionManager"/>
----

Then you just need to add it to our earlier container configuration. The container will
take care of the rest.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<bean id="jmsContainer" class="org.springframework.jms.listener.DefaultMessageListenerContainer">
		<property name="connectionFactory" ref="connectionFactory"/>
		<property name="destination" ref="destination"/>
		<property name="messageListener" ref="messageListener"/>
		**<property name="transactionManager" ref="transactionManager"/>**
	</bean>
----




[[jms-jca-message-endpoint-manager]]
=== Support for JCA Message Endpoints
Beginning with version 2.5, Spring also provides support for a JCA-based
`MessageListener` container. The `JmsMessageEndpointManager` will attempt to
automatically determine the `ActivationSpec` class name from the provider's
`ResourceAdapter` class name. Therefore, it is typically possible to just provide
Spring's generic `JmsActivationSpecConfig` as shown in the following example.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<bean class="org.springframework.jms.listener.endpoint.JmsMessageEndpointManager">
		<property name="resourceAdapter" ref="resourceAdapter"/>
		<property name="activationSpecConfig">
			<bean class="org.springframework.jms.listener.endpoint.JmsActivationSpecConfig">
				<property name="destinationName" value="myQueue"/>
			</bean>
		</property>
		<property name="messageListener" ref="myMessageListener"/>
	</bean>
----

Alternatively, you may set up a `JmsMessageEndpointManager` with a given
`ActivationSpec` object. The `ActivationSpec` object may also come from a JNDI lookup
(using `<jee:jndi-lookup>`).

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<bean class="org.springframework.jms.listener.endpoint.JmsMessageEndpointManager">
		<property name="resourceAdapter" ref="resourceAdapter"/>
		<property name="activationSpec">
			<bean class="org.apache.activemq.ra.ActiveMQActivationSpec">
				<property name="destination" value="myQueue"/>
				<property name="destinationType" value="javax.jms.Queue"/>
			</bean>
		</property>
		<property name="messageListener" ref="myMessageListener"/>
	</bean>
----

Using Spring's `ResourceAdapterFactoryBean`, the target `ResourceAdapter` may be
configured locally as depicted in the following example.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<bean id="resourceAdapter" class="org.springframework.jca.support.ResourceAdapterFactoryBean">
		<property name="resourceAdapter">
			<bean class="org.apache.activemq.ra.ActiveMQResourceAdapter">
				<property name="serverUrl" value="tcp://localhost:61616"/>
			</bean>
		</property>
		<property name="workManager">
			<bean class="org.springframework.jca.work.SimpleTaskWorkManager"/>
		</property>
	</bean>
----

The specified `WorkManager` may also point to an environment-specific thread pool -
typically through `SimpleTaskWorkManager's` "asyncTaskExecutor" property. Consider
defining a shared thread pool for all your `ResourceAdapter` instances if you happen to
use multiple adapters.

In some environments (e.g. WebLogic 9 or above), the entire `ResourceAdapter` object may
be obtained from JNDI instead (using `<jee:jndi-lookup>`). The Spring-based message
listeners can then interact with the server-hosted `ResourceAdapter`, also using the
server's built-in `WorkManager`.

Please consult the JavaDoc for `JmsMessageEndpointManager`, `JmsActivationSpecConfig`,
and `ResourceAdapterFactoryBean` for more details.

Spring also provides a generic JCA message endpoint manager which is not tied to JMS:
`org.springframework.jca.endpoint.GenericMessageEndpointManager`. This component allows
for using any message listener type (e.g. a CCI MessageListener) and any
provider-specific ActivationSpec object. Check out your JCA provider's documentation to
find out about the actual capabilities of your connector, and consult
`GenericMessageEndpointManager`'s JavaDoc for the Spring-specific configuration details.

[NOTE]
====
JCA-based message endpoint management is very analogous to EJB 2.1 Message-Driven Beans;
it uses the same underlying resource provider contract. Like with EJB 2.1 MDBs, any
message listener interface supported by your JCA provider can be used in the Spring
context as well. Spring nevertheless provides explicit 'convenience' support for JMS,
simply because JMS is the most common endpoint API used with the JCA endpoint management
contract.
====



[[jms-annotated]]
=== Annotation-driven listener endpoints
The easiest way to receive a message asynchronously is to use the annotated listener
endpoint infrastructure. In a nutshell, it allows you to expose a method of a managed
bean as a JMS listener endpoint.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
    @Component
    public class MyService {

    	@JmsListener(destination = "myDestination")
    	public void processOrder(String data) { ... }
    }
----

The idea of the example above is that whenever a message is available on the
`javax.jms.Destination` "myDestination", the `processOrder` method is invoked
accordingly (in this case, with the content of the JMS message similarly to
what the <<jms-receiving-async-message-listener-adapter, `MessageListenerAdapter`>>
provides).

The annotated endpoint infrastructure creates a message listener container
behind the scenes for each annotated method, using a `JmsListenerContainerFactory`.

[[jms-annotated-support]]
==== Enable listener endpoint annotations

To enable support for `@JmsListener` annotations add `@EnableJms` to one of
your `@Configuration` classes.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Configuration
	@EnableJms
	public class AppConfig {

		@Bean
		public DefaultJmsListenerContainerFactory jmsListenerContainerFactory() {
			DefaultJmsListenerContainerFactory factory =
					new DefaultJmsListenerContainerFactory();
			factory.setConnectionFactory(connectionFactory());
			factory.setDestinationResolver(destinationResolver());
			factory.setConcurrency("3-10");
			return factory;
		}
	}
----

By default, the infrastructure looks for a bean named `jmsListenerContainerFactory`
as the source for the factory to use to create message listener containers. In this
case, and ignoring the JMS infrastructure setup, the `processOrder` method can be
invoked with a core poll size of 3 threads and a maximum pool size of 10 threads.

It is possible to customize the listener container factory to use per annotation or
an explicit default can be configured by implementing the `JmsListenerConfigurer`
interface. The default is only required if at least one endpoint is registered
without a specific container factory. See the javadoc for full details and examples.

If you prefer <<jms-namespace,XML configuration>> use the `<jms:annotation-driven>`
element.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<jms:annotation-driven/>

    <bean id="jmsListenerContainerFactory"
            class="org.springframework.jms.config.DefaultJmsListenerContainerFactory">
        <property name="connectionFactory" ref="connectionFactory"/>
        <property name="destinationResolver" ref="destinationResolver"/>
        <property name="concurrency" value="3-10"/>
    </bean>
----

[[jms-annotated-programmatic-registration]]
==== Programmatic endpoints registration

`JmsListenerEndpoint` provides a model of an JMS endpoint and is responsible for configuring
the container for that model. The infrastructure allows you to configure endpoints
programmatically in addition to the ones that are detected by the `JmsListener` annotation.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Configuration
	@EnableJms
	public class AppConfig implements JmsListenerConfigurer {

		@Override
		public void configureJmsListeners(JmsListenerEndpointRegistrar registrar) {
			SimpleJmsListenerEndpoint endpoint = new SimpleJmsListenerEndpoint();
			endpoint.setId("myJmsEndpoint");
			endpoint.setDestination("anotherQueue");
			endpoint.setMessageListener(message -> {
				// processing
			});
			registrar.registerEndpoint(endpoint);
		}
	}
----

In the example above, we used `SimpleJmsListenerEndpoint` which provides the actual
`MessageListener` to invoke but you could just as well build your own endpoint variant
describing a custom invocation mechanism.

It should be noted that you could just as well skip the use of `@JmsListener` altogether
and only register your endpoints programmatically through `JmsListenerConfigurer`.

[[jms-annotated-method-signature]]
==== Annotated endpoint method signature

So far, we have been injecting a simple `String` in our endpoint but it can actually
have a very flexible method signature. Let's rewrite it to inject the `Order` with
a custom header:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Component
	public class MyService {

    	@JmsListener(destination = "myDestination")
    	public void processOrder(Order order, @Header("order_type") String orderType) {
        	...
    	}
	}
----

These are the main elements you can inject in JMS listener endpoints:

* The raw `javax.jms.Message` or any of its subclasses (provided of course that it
  matches the incoming message type).
* The `javax.jms.Session` for optional access to the native JMS API e.g. for sending
  a custom reply.
* The `org.springframework.messaging.Message` representing the incoming JMS message.
  Note that this message holds both the custom and the standard headers (as defined
  by `JmsHeaders`).
* `@Header`-annotated method arguments to extract a specific header value, including
  standard JMS headers.
* `@Headers`-annotated argument that must also be assignable to `java.util.Map` for
  getting access to all headers.
* A non-annotated element that is not one of the supported types (i.e. `Message` and
  `Session`) is considered to be the payload. You can make that explicit by annotating
  the parameter with `@Payload`. You can also turn on validation by adding an extra
  `@Valid`.

The ability to inject Spring's `Message` abstraction is particularly useful to benefit
from all the information stored in the transport-specific message without relying on
transport-specific API.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@JmsListener(destination = "myDestination")
	public void processOrder(Message<Order> order) { ... }
----

Handling of method arguments is provided by `DefaultMessageHandlerMethodFactory` which can be
further customized to support additional method arguments. The conversion and validation
support can be customized there as well.

For instance, if we want to make sure our `Order` is valid before processing it, we can
annotate the payload with `@Valid` and configure the necessary validator as follows:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@Configuration
	@EnableJms
	public class AppConfig implements JmsListenerConfigurer {

    	@Override
    	public void configureJmsListeners(JmsListenerEndpointRegistrar registrar) {
        	registrar.setMessageHandlerMethodFactory(myJmsHandlerMethodFactory());
    	}

    	@Bean
    	public DefaultMessageHandlerMethodFactory myHandlerMethodFactory() {
        	DefaultMessageHandlerMethodFactory factory = new DefaultMessageHandlerMethodFactory();
        	factory.setValidator(myValidator());
        	return factory;
    	}
	}
----

[[jms-annotated-reply]]
==== Reply management

The existing support in <<jms-receiving-async-message-listener-adapter,MessageListenerAdapter>>
already allows your method to have a non-`void` return type. When that's the case, the result of
the invocation is encapsulated in a `javax.jms.Message` sent either in the destination specified
in the `JMSReplyTo` header of the original message or in the default destination configured on
the listener. That default destination can now be set using the `@SendTo` annotation of the
messaging abstraction.

Assuming our `processOrder` method should now return an `OrderStatus`, it is possible to write it
as follow to automatically send a reply:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@JmsListener(destination = "myDestination")
	@SendTo("status")
	public OrderStatus processOrder(Order order) {
    	// order processing
    	return status;
	}
----

If you need to set additional headers in a transport-independent manner, you could return a
`Message` instead, something like:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	@JmsListener(destination = "myDestination")
	@SendTo("status")
	public Message<OrderStatus> processOrder(Order order) {
    	// order processing
    	return MessageBuilder
        	    .withPayload(status)
            	.setHeader("code", 1234)
            	.build();
	}
----

[[jms-namespace]]
=== JMS Namespace Support
Spring provides an XML namespace for simplifying JMS configuration. To use the JMS
namespace elements you will need to reference the JMS schema:

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
	<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
			xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
			**xmlns:jms="http://www.springframework.org/schema/jms"**
			xsi:schemaLocation="
				http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd
				**http://www.springframework.org/schema/jms http://www.springframework.org/schema/jms/spring-jms.xsd**">

		<!-- bean definitions here -->

	</beans>
----

The namespace consists of three top-level elements: `<annotation-driven/>`, `<listener-container/>`
and `<jca-listener-container/>`. `<annotation-driven` enables the use of <<jms-annotated,
annotation-driven listener endpoints>>. `<listener-container/>` and `<jca-listener-container/>`
defines shared listener container configuration and may contain `<listener/>` child elements. Here
is an example of a basic configuration for two listeners.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<jms:listener-container>

		<jms:listener destination="queue.orders" ref="orderService" method="placeOrder"/>

		<jms:listener destination="queue.confirmations" ref="confirmationLogger" method="log"/>

	</jms:listener-container>
----

The example above is equivalent to creating two distinct listener container bean
definitions and two distinct `MessageListenerAdapter` bean definitions as demonstrated
in <<jms-receiving-async-message-listener-adapter>>. In addition to the attributes shown
above, the `listener` element may contain several optional ones. The following table
describes all available attributes:

[[jms-namespace-listener-tbl]]
.Attributes of the JMS <listener> element
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Attribute| Description

| id
| A bean name for the hosting listener container. If not specified, a bean name will be
  automatically generated.

| destination __(required)__
| The destination name for this listener, resolved through the `DestinationResolver`
  strategy.

| ref __(required)__
| The bean name of the handler object.

| method
| The name of the handler method to invoke. If the `ref` points to a `MessageListener`
  or Spring `SessionAwareMessageListener`, this attribute may be omitted.

| response-destination
| The name of the default response destination to send response messages to. This will
  be applied in case of a request message that does not carry a "JMSReplyTo" field. The
  type of this destination will be determined by the listener-container's
  "destination-type" attribute. Note: This only applies to a listener method with a
  return value, for which each result object will be converted into a response message.

| subscription
| The name of the durable subscription, if any.

| selector
| An optional message selector for this listener.

| concurrency
| The number of concurrent sessions/consumers to start for this listener. Can either be
  a simple number indicating the maximum number (e.g. "5") or a range indicating the lower
  as well as the upper limit (e.g. "3-5"). Note that a specified minimum is just a hint
  and might be ignored at runtime. Default is the value provided by the container
|===

The `<listener-container/>` element also accepts several optional attributes. This
allows for customization of the various strategies (for example, `taskExecutor` and
`destinationResolver`) as well as basic JMS settings and resource references. Using
these attributes, it is possible to define highly-customized listener containers while
still benefiting from the convenience of the namespace.

Such settings can be automatically exposed as a `JmsListenerContainerFactory` by
specifying the id of the bean to expose through the `factory-id` attribute.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<jms:listener-container connection-factory="myConnectionFactory"
			task-executor="myTaskExecutor"
			destination-resolver="myDestinationResolver"
			transaction-manager="myTransactionManager"
			concurrency="10">

		<jms:listener destination="queue.orders" ref="orderService" method="placeOrder"/>

		<jms:listener destination="queue.confirmations" ref="confirmationLogger" method="log"/>

	</jms:listener-container>
----

The following table describes all available attributes. Consult the class-level javadocs
of the `AbstractMessageListenerContainer` and its concrete subclasses for more details
on the individual properties. The javadocs also provide a discussion of transaction
choices and message redelivery scenarios.

[[jms-namespace-listener-container-tbl]]
.Attributes of the JMS <listener-container> element
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Attribute| Description

| container-type
| The type of this listener container. Available options are: `default`, `simple`,
  `default102`, or `simple102` (the default value is `'default'`).

| container-class
| A custom listener container implementation class as fully qualified class name.
  Default is Spring's standard `DefaultMessageListenerContainer` or
  `SimpleMessageListenerContainer`, according to the "container-type" attribute.

| factory-id
| Exposes the settings defined by this element as a `JmsListenerContainerFactory`
  with the specified id so that they can be reused with other endpoints.

| connection-factory
| A reference to the JMS `ConnectionFactory` bean (the default bean name is
  `'connectionFactory'`).

| task-executor
| A reference to the Spring `TaskExecutor` for the JMS listener invokers.

| destination-resolver
| A reference to the `DestinationResolver` strategy for resolving JMS `Destinations`.

| message-converter
| A reference to the `MessageConverter` strategy for converting JMS Messages to listener
  method arguments. Default is a `SimpleMessageConverter`.

| error-handler
| A reference to an `ErrorHandler` strategy for handling any uncaught Exceptions that
  may occur during the execution of the `MessageListener`.

| destination-type
| The JMS destination type for this listener: `queue`, `topic`, `durableTopic`, `sharedTopic`
  or `sharedDurableTopic`. This enables potentially the `pubSubDomain`, `subscriptionDurable`
  and `subscriptionShared` properties of the container. The default is `queue` (i.e. disabling
  those 3 properties).

| client-id
| The JMS client id for this listener container. Needs to be specified when using
  durable subscriptions.

| cache
| The cache level for JMS resources: `none`, `connection`, `session`, `consumer` or
  `auto`. By default ( `auto`), the cache level will effectively be "consumer", unless
  an external transaction manager has been specified - in which case the effective
  default will be `none` (assuming Java EE-style transaction management where the given
  ConnectionFactory is an XA-aware pool).

| acknowledge
| The native JMS acknowledge mode: `auto`, `client`, `dups-ok` or `transacted`. A value
  of `transacted` activates a locally transacted `Session`. As an alternative, specify
  the `transaction-manager` attribute described below. Default is `auto`.

| transaction-manager
| A reference to an external `PlatformTransactionManager` (typically an XA-based
  transaction coordinator, e.g. Spring's `JtaTransactionManager`). If not specified,
  native acknowledging will be used (see "acknowledge" attribute).

| concurrency
| The number of concurrent sessions/consumers to start for each listener. Can either be
  a simple number indicating the maximum number (e.g. "5") or a range indicating the
  lower as well as the upper limit (e.g. "3-5"). Note that a specified minimum is just a
  hint and might be ignored at runtime. Default is 1; keep concurrency limited to 1 in
  case of a topic listener or if queue ordering is important; consider raising it for
  general queues.

| prefetch
| The maximum number of messages to load into a single session. Note that raising this
  number might lead to starvation of concurrent consumers!

| receive-timeout
| The timeout to use for receive calls (in milliseconds). The default is `1000` ms (1
  sec); `-1` indicates no timeout at all.

| back-off
| Specify the `BackOff` instance to use to compute the interval between recovery
  attempts. If the `BackOffExecution` implementation returns `BackOffExecution#STOP`,
  the listener container will not further attempt to recover. The `recovery-interval`
  value is ignored when this property is set. The default is a `FixedBackOff` with
  an interval of 5000 ms, that is 5 seconds.

| recovery-interval
| Specify the interval between recovery attempts, in milliseconds. Convenience
  way to create a `FixedBackOff` with the specified interval. For more recovery
  options, consider specifying a BackOff instance instead. The default is 5000 ms,
  that is 5 seconds.

| phase
| The lifecycle phase within which this container should start and stop. The lower the
  value the earlier this container will start and the later it will stop. The default is
  `Integer.MAX_VALUE` meaning the container will start as late as possible and stop as
  soon as possible.
|===

Configuring a JCA-based listener container with the "jms" schema support is very similar.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<jms:jca-listener-container resource-adapter="myResourceAdapter"
			destination-resolver="myDestinationResolver"
			transaction-manager="myTransactionManager"
			concurrency="10">

		<jms:listener destination="queue.orders" ref="myMessageListener"/>

	</jms:jca-listener-container>
----

The available configuration options for the JCA variant are described in the following
table:

[[jms-namespace-jca-listener-container-tbl]]
.Attributes of the JMS <jca-listener-container/> element
[cols="1,6"]
|===
| Attribute| Description

| factory-id
| Exposes the settings defined by this element as a `JmsListenerContainerFactory`
  with the specified id so that they can be reused with other endpoints.

| resource-adapter
| A reference to the JCA `ResourceAdapter` bean (the default bean name is
  `'resourceAdapter'`).

| activation-spec-factory
| A reference to the `JmsActivationSpecFactory`. The default is to autodetect the JMS
  provider and its `ActivationSpec` class (see `DefaultJmsActivationSpecFactory`)

| destination-resolver
| A reference to the `DestinationResolver` strategy for resolving JMS `Destinations`.

| message-converter
| A reference to the `MessageConverter` strategy for converting JMS Messages to listener
  method arguments. Default is a `SimpleMessageConverter`.

| destination-type
| The JMS destination type for this listener: `queue`, `topic`, `durableTopic`, `sharedTopic`
  or `sharedDurableTopic`. This enables potentially the `pubSubDomain`, `subscriptionDurable`
  and `subscriptionShared` properties of the container. The default is `queue` (i.e. disabling
  those 3 properties).

| client-id
| The JMS client id for this listener container. Needs to be specified when using
  durable subscriptions.

| acknowledge
| The native JMS acknowledge mode: `auto`, `client`, `dups-ok` or `transacted`. A value
  of `transacted` activates a locally transacted `Session`. As an alternative, specify
  the `transaction-manager` attribute described below. Default is `auto`.

| transaction-manager
| A reference to a Spring `JtaTransactionManager` or a
  `javax.transaction.TransactionManager` for kicking off an XA transaction for each
  incoming message. If not specified, native acknowledging will be used (see the
  "acknowledge" attribute).

| concurrency
| The number of concurrent sessions/consumers to start for each listener. Can either be
  a simple number indicating the maximum number (e.g. "5") or a range indicating the
  lower as well as the upper limit (e.g. "3-5"). Note that a specified minimum is just a
  hint and will typically be ignored at runtime when using a JCA listener container.
  Default is 1.

| prefetch
| The maximum number of messages to load into a single session. Note that raising this
  number might lead to starvation of concurrent consumers!
|===




