[[spring-appendices]]
= Appendices





[[migration-4.0]]
== Migrating to Spring Framework 4.0
Migration guides for upgrading from previous releases of the Spring Framework are now
provided as a Wiki page. For details please refer to
https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/wiki/Migrating-from-earlier-versions-of-the-spring-framework





[[classic-spring]]
== Classic Spring Usage
This appendix discusses some classic Spring usage patterns as a reference for developers
maintaining legacy Spring applications. These usage patterns no longer reflect the
recommended way of using these features and the current recommended usage is covered in
the respective sections of the reference manual.




[[classic-spring-orm]]
=== Classic ORM usage
This section documents the classic usage patterns that you might encounter in a legacy
Spring application. For the currently recommended usage patterns, please refer to the
<<orm>> chapter.



[[classic-spring-hibernate]]
==== Hibernate
For the currently recommended usage patterns for Hibernate see <<orm-hibernate>>


[[orm-hibernate-template]]
===== the HibernateTemplate

The basic programming model for templating looks as follows, for methods that can be
part of any custom data access object or business service. There are no restrictions on
the implementation of the surrounding object at all, it just needs to provide a
Hibernate `SessionFactory`. It can get the latter from anywhere, but preferably as bean
reference from a Spring IoC container - via a simple `setSessionFactory(..)` bean
property setter. The following snippets show a DAO definition in a Spring container,
referencing the above defined `SessionFactory`, and an example for a DAO method
implementation.

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<beans>

		<bean id="myProductDao" class="product.ProductDaoImpl">
			<property name="sessionFactory" ref="mySessionFactory"/>
		</bean>

	</beans>
----

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class ProductDaoImpl implements ProductDao {

		private HibernateTemplate hibernateTemplate;

		public void setSessionFactory(SessionFactory sessionFactory) {
			this.hibernateTemplate = new HibernateTemplate(sessionFactory);
		}

		public Collection loadProductsByCategory(String category) throws DataAccessException {
			return this.hibernateTemplate.find("from test.Product product where product.category=?", category);
		}
	}
----

The `HibernateTemplate` class provides many methods that mirror the methods exposed on
the Hibernate `Session` interface, in addition to a number of convenience methods such
as the one shown above. If you need access to the `Session` to invoke methods that are
not exposed on the `HibernateTemplate`, you can always drop down to a callback-based
approach like so.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class ProductDaoImpl implements ProductDao {

		private HibernateTemplate hibernateTemplate;

		public void setSessionFactory(SessionFactory sessionFactory) {
			this.hibernateTemplate = new HibernateTemplate(sessionFactory);
		}

		public Collection loadProductsByCategory(final String category) throws DataAccessException {
			return this.hibernateTemplate.execute(new HibernateCallback() {
				public Object doInHibernate(Session session) {
					Criteria criteria = session.createCriteria(Product.class);
					criteria.add(Expression.eq("category", category));
					criteria.setMaxResults(6);
					return criteria.list();
				}
			};
		}

	}
----

A callback implementation effectively can be used for any Hibernate data access.
`HibernateTemplate` will ensure that `Session` instances are properly opened and closed,
and automatically participate in transactions. The template instances are thread-safe
and reusable, they can thus be kept as instance variables of the surrounding class. For
simple single step actions like a single find, load, saveOrUpdate, or delete call,
`HibernateTemplate` offers alternative convenience methods that can replace such one
line callback implementations. Furthermore, Spring provides a convenient
`HibernateDaoSupport` base class that provides a `setSessionFactory(..)` method for
receiving a `SessionFactory`, and `getSessionFactory()` and `getHibernateTemplate()` for
use by subclasses. In combination, this allows for very simple DAO implementations for
typical requirements:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class ProductDaoImpl extends HibernateDaoSupport implements ProductDao {

		public Collection loadProductsByCategory(String category) throws DataAccessException {
			return this.getHibernateTemplate().find(
				"from test.Product product where product.category=?", category);
		}

	}
----


[[orm-hibernate-daos]]
===== Implementing Spring-based DAOs without callbacks
As alternative to using Spring's `HibernateTemplate` to implement DAOs, data access code
can also be written in a more traditional fashion, without wrapping the Hibernate access
code in a callback, while still respecting and participating in Spring's generic
`DataAccessException` hierarchy. The `HibernateDaoSupport` base class offers methods to
access the current transactional `Session` and to convert exceptions in such a scenario;
similar methods are also available as static helpers on the `SessionFactoryUtils` class.
Note that such code will usually pass `false` as the value of the `getSession(..)`
methods `allowCreate` argument, to enforce running within a transaction (which avoids
the need to close the returned `Session`, as its lifecycle is managed by the
transaction).

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class HibernateProductDao extends HibernateDaoSupport implements ProductDao {

		public Collection loadProductsByCategory(String category) throws DataAccessException, MyException {
			Session session = getSession(false);
			try {
				Query query = session.createQuery("from test.Product product where product.category=?");
				query.setString(0, category);
				List result = query.list();
				if (result == null) {
					throw new MyException("No search results.");
				}
				return result;
			}
			catch (HibernateException ex) {
				throw convertHibernateAccessException(ex);
			}
		}
	}
----

The advantage of such direct Hibernate access code is that it allows __any__ checked
application exception to be thrown within the data access code; contrast this to the
`HibernateTemplate` class which is restricted to throwing only unchecked exceptions
within the callback. Note that you can often defer the corresponding checks and the
throwing of application exceptions to after the callback, which still allows working
with `HibernateTemplate`. In general, the `HibernateTemplate` class' convenience methods
are simpler and more convenient for many scenarios.



[[classic-spring-jdo]]
==== JDO
For the currently recommended usage patterns for JDO see <<orm-jdo>>


[[orm-jdo-template]]
===== JdoTemplate and `JdoDaoSupport`

Each JDO-based DAO will then receive the `PersistenceManagerFactory` through dependency
injection. Such a DAO could be coded against plain JDO API, working with the given
`PersistenceManagerFactory`, but will usually rather be used with the Spring Framework's
`JdoTemplate`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<beans>

		<bean id="myProductDao" class="product.ProductDaoImpl">
			<property name="persistenceManagerFactory" ref="myPmf"/>
		</bean>

	</beans>
----

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class ProductDaoImpl implements ProductDao {

		private JdoTemplate jdoTemplate;

		public void setPersistenceManagerFactory(PersistenceManagerFactory pmf) {
			this.jdoTemplate = new JdoTemplate(pmf);
		}

		public Collection loadProductsByCategory(final String category) throws DataAccessException {
			return (Collection) this.jdoTemplate.execute(new JdoCallback() {
				public Object doInJdo(PersistenceManager pm) throws JDOException {
					Query query = pm.newQuery(Product.class, "category = pCategory");
					query.declareParameters("String pCategory");
					List result = query.execute(category);
					// do some further stuff with the result list
					return result;
				}
			});
		}

	}
----

A callback implementation can effectively be used for any JDO data access. `JdoTemplate`
will ensure that `PersistenceManager` s are properly opened and closed, and
automatically participate in transactions. The template instances are thread-safe and
reusable, they can thus be kept as instance variables of the surrounding class. For
simple single-step actions such as a single `find`, `load`, `makePersistent`, or
`delete` call, `JdoTemplate` offers alternative convenience methods that can replace
such one line callback implementations. Furthermore, Spring provides a convenient
`JdoDaoSupport` base class that provides a `setPersistenceManagerFactory(..)` method for
receiving a `PersistenceManagerFactory`, and `getPersistenceManagerFactory()` and
`getJdoTemplate()` for use by subclasses. In combination, this allows for very simple
DAO implementations for typical requirements:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class ProductDaoImpl extends JdoDaoSupport implements ProductDao {

		public Collection loadProductsByCategory(String category) throws DataAccessException {
			return getJdoTemplate().find(Product.class,
					"category = pCategory", "String category", new Object[] {category});
		}

	}
----

As alternative to working with Spring's `JdoTemplate`, you can also code Spring-based
DAOs at the JDO API level, explicitly opening and closing a `PersistenceManager`. As
elaborated in the corresponding Hibernate section, the main advantage of this approach
is that your data access code is able to throw checked exceptions. `JdoDaoSupport`
offers a variety of support methods for this scenario, for fetching and releasing a
transactional `PersistenceManager` as well as for converting exceptions.



[[classic-spring-jpa]]
==== JPA
For the currently recommended usage patterns for JPA see <<orm-jpa>>


[[orm-jpa-template]]
===== JpaTemplate and `JpaDaoSupport`

Each JPA-based DAO will then receive a `EntityManagerFactory` via dependency injection.
Such a DAO can be coded against plain JPA and work with the given `EntityManagerFactory`
or through Spring's `JpaTemplate`:

[source,xml,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	<beans>

		<bean id="myProductDao" class="product.ProductDaoImpl">
			<property name="entityManagerFactory" ref="myEmf"/>
		</bean>

	</beans>
----

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class JpaProductDao implements ProductDao {

		private JpaTemplate jpaTemplate;

		public void setEntityManagerFactory(EntityManagerFactory emf) {
			this.jpaTemplate = new JpaTemplate(emf);
		}

		public Collection loadProductsByCategory(final String category) throws DataAccessException {
			return (Collection) this.jpaTemplate.execute(new JpaCallback() {
				public Object doInJpa(EntityManager em) throws PersistenceException {
					Query query = em.createQuery("from Product as p where p.category = :category");
					query.setParameter("category", category);
					List result = query.getResultList();
					// do some further processing with the result list
					return result;
				}
			});
		}

	}
----

The `JpaCallback` implementation allows any type of JPA data access. The `JpaTemplate`
will ensure that `EntityManager` s are properly opened and closed and automatically
participate in transactions. Moreover, the `JpaTemplate` properly handles exceptions,
making sure resources are cleaned up and the appropriate transactions rolled back. The
template instances are thread-safe and reusable and they can be kept as instance
variable of the enclosing class. Note that `JpaTemplate` offers single-step actions such
as find, load, merge, etc along with alternative convenience methods that can replace
one line callback implementations.

Furthermore, Spring provides a convenient `JpaDaoSupport` base class that provides the
`get/setEntityManagerFactory` and `getJpaTemplate()` to be used by subclasses:

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes"]
----
	public class ProductDaoImpl extends JpaDaoSupport implements ProductDao {

		public Collection loadProductsByCategory(String category) throws DataAccessException {
			Map<String, String> params = new HashMap<String, String>();
			params.put("category", category);
			return getJpaTemplate().findByNamedParams("from Product as p where p.category = :category", params);
		}

	}
----

Besides working with Spring's `JpaTemplate`, one can also code Spring-based DAOs against
the JPA, doing one's own explicit `EntityManager` handling. As also elaborated in the
corresponding Hibernate section, the main advantage of this approach is that your data
access code is able to throw checked exceptions. `JpaDaoSupport` offers a variety of
support methods for this scenario, for retrieving and releasing a transaction
`EntityManager`, as well as for converting exceptions.

__JpaTemplate mainly exists as a sibling of JdoTemplate and HibernateTemplate, offering
the same style for people used to it.__




[[clasic-spring-mvc]]
=== Classic Spring MVC
...




[[classic-spring-jms]]
=== JMS Usage

One of the benefits of Spring's JMS support is to shield the user from differences
between the JMS 1.0.2 and 1.1 APIs. (For a description of the differences between the
two APIs see sidebar on Domain Unification). Since it is now common to encounter only
the JMS 1.1 API the use of classes that are based on the JMS 1.0.2 API has been
deprecated in Spring 3.0. This section describes Spring JMS support for the JMS 1.0.2
deprecated classes.

.Domain Unification
****
There are two major releases of the JMS specification, 1.0.2 and 1.1.

JMS 1.0.2 defined two types of messaging domains, point-to-point (Queues) and
publish/subscribe (Topics). The 1.0.2 API reflected these two messaging domains by
providing a parallel class hierarchy for each domain. As a result, a client application
became domain specific in its use of the JMS API. JMS 1.1 introduced the concept of
domain unification that minimized both the functional differences and client API
differences between the two domains. As an example of a functional difference that was
removed, if you use a JMS 1.1 provider you can transactionally consume a message from
one domain and produce a message on the other using the same `Session`.

[NOTE]
====
The JMS 1.1 specification was released in April 2002 and incorporated as part of J2EE
1.4 in November 2003. As a result, common J2EE 1.3 application servers which are still
in widespread use (such as BEA WebLogic 8.1 and IBM WebSphere 5.1) are based on JMS
1.0.2.
====
****



[[classic-spring-jms-template]]
==== JmsTemplate
Located in the package `org.springframework.jms.core` the class `JmsTemplate102`
provides all of the features of the `JmsTemplate` described the JMS chapter, but is
based on the JMS 1.0.2 API instead of the JMS 1.1 API. As a consequence, if you are
using JmsTemplate102 you need to set the boolean property `pubSubDomain` to configure
the `JmsTemplate` with knowledge of what JMS domain is being used. By default the value
of this property is false, indicating that the point-to-point domain, Queues, will be
used.



[[classic-spring-aysnc-messages]]
==== Asynchronous Message Reception
<<jms-receiving-async-message-listener-adapter,MessageListenerAdapter's>> are used in
conjunction with Spring's <<jms-mdp,message listener containers>> to support
asynchronous message reception by exposing almost any class as a Message-driven POJO. If
you are using the JMS 1.0.2 API, you will want to use the 1.0.2 specific classes such as
`MessageListenerAdapter102`, `SimpleMessageListenerContainer102`, and
`DefaultMessageListenerContainer102`. These classes provide the same functionality as
the JMS 1.1 based counterparts but rely only on the JMS 1.0.2 API.



[[classic-spring-jms-connections]]
==== Connections
The `ConnectionFactory` interface is part of the JMS specification and serves as the
entry point for working with JMS. Spring provides an implementation of the
`ConnectionFactory` interface, `SingleConnectionFactory102`, based on the JMS 1.0.2 API
that will return the same `Connection` on all `createConnection()` calls and ignore
calls to `close()`. You will need to set the boolean property `pubSubDomain` to indicate
which messaging domain is used as `SingleConnectionFactory102` will always explicitly
differentiate between a `javax.jms.QueueConnection` and a `javax.jmsTopicConnection`.



[[classic-spring-jms-tx-management]]
==== Transaction Management
In a JMS 1.0.2 environment the class `JmsTransactionManager102` provides support for
managing JMS transactions for a single Connection Factory. Please refer to the reference
documentation on <<jms-tx,JMS Transaction Management>> for more information on this
functionality.




